# Quality Analytics Talent Deck Feedback

- I agree that there should be a path for people to join as data analysts and progress into data scientists, but I think this ignores a large number of students coming out with degrees in Data Science. We will not be competitive or even on the radar for this talent pool if we expect everyone to come in as a Data Analyst.
  -  I propose a different maturity path for these resources. One where they come in with their technical skills as P1/P2 Data Scientists and there is an "option" to develop their business acumen. 
- I don't think that the DS needs to be in IT. That role can exist anywhere in the enterprise as long as we have a strategy for utilization and work prioritization. Moving the DS away from the business will hurt their effectiveness.
- This looks like they are trying to match how things are done today and are ignoring the current talent market as well as how they would like things to be done in the future.
- Initially, I wanted to say *what can a data scientist fresh out of college actually do to create value here?* However, Lance brings up a very good point about not being competitive for talent (our main goal) if we force everyone to start as any particular title/job. An entry level data scientist (P1/P2) can apply statistical and machine learning methods to analyze large, complex data sets and implement data governance best practices without needing a ton of business domain knowledge. I vote in favor of allowing entry level data scientists for this reason.
- Totally agree that a P5+ data scientist can, and needs to, exist outside of IT. That's a weird choice to make *Spec. Data Scientist* blue on slide 3.
- I'm not necessarily against splitting out data analyst and data wrangler, but I don't think we are a mature enough data organization to support this well.
- Data wranglers, in my opinion, should  focus more on data modeling whereas data analysts should focus more time on identifying takeaways that guide decision-making and inspire action. I think that's what this slide deck is getting at on slide 4 where "cleaning & organizing data" = data modeling and "modeling & analysis" = analysis.
- Having functional analytics teams and then functional business analysts that exist outside of these teams seems redundant. We probably don't care how other groups spend their headcount, but who would that business analyst be? Analytics lite? Would they just serve as a middleman and not really add any value?